Chapter 7, in which kanga and baby ru come to the forest, and piglet has a bath.
Nobody seemed to know where they came from, but there they were in the forest, kanga and baby ru.
When Pu asked Christopher Robin, how did they come here, Christopher Robin said,
in the usual way, if you know what I mean, Pu, and Pu, who didn't, said, oh.
Then he nodded his head twice and said, in the usual way, ah.
Then he went a call upon his friend piglet to see what he thought about it,
and at Piglet's house he found rabbit, so they all talked about it together.
What I don't like about it is this, said rabbit.
Here are we, you Pu, and you piglet, and me, and suddenly, and Ior, said Pu,
and Ior, and then suddenly, and Ior, said Pu, and Ior, and then all of a sudden,
oh, and Ior, said Pu, I was forgetting him.
Here we are, said rabbit, slowly and carefully, all of us, and then suddenly we wake up one morning
and what do we find?
We find a strange animal among us, an animal of whom we had never even heard before,
an animal who carries her family about with her in her pocket.
Suppose I carried my family about with me in my pocket, how many pockets should I want?
Sixteen, said piglet.
Seventeen, isn't it, said rabbit, and one more for a handkerchief that's eighteen,
eighteen pockets in one suit, I haven't time.
There was a long and thoughtful silence, and then Pu, who had been frowning very hard
for some minutes, said, I make it fifteen.
What, said rabbit, fifteen, fifteen, what?
Your family, what about them?
Pu rubbed his nose and said that he thought rabbit had been talking about his family.
Did I, said rabbit, carelessly?
Yes, you said, never mind Pu, said piglet impatiently.
The question is, what are we going to do about kanga?
Oh, I see, said Pu.
The best way, said rabbit, would be this, the best way would be to steal baby Roo and hide him,
and then when kanga says, where's baby Roo, we say, aha!
Aha, said Pu, practicing.
Aha, aha, of course, he went on.
We could say aha, even if we hadn't stolen baby Roo.
Pu, said rabbit kindly, you haven't any brain?
I know, said Pu humbly.
We say aha, so that kanga knows that we know where baby Roo is.
Aha means we'll tell you where baby Roo is if you promise to go away from the forest and never come back.
Now, don't talk while I think.
Pu went into a corner and tried saying aha in that sort of voice.
Sometimes it seemed to him that it did mean what rabbit said, and sometimes it seemed to him that it didn't.
I suppose it's just practice, he thought.
I wonder if kanga will have to practice too, so as to understand it.
There's just one thing, said piglet, fidgeting a bit.
I was talking to Christopher Robin and he said that a kanga was generally regarded as one of the fiercer animals.
I'm not frightened of fiercer animals in the ordinary way, but it is well known that a one of the fiercer animals is deprived of its young.
It becomes as fiercer as two of the fiercer animals, in which case aha is perhaps a foolish thing to say.
Piglet, said rabbit, taking out a pencil and licking the end of it.
You haven't any pluck.
It is hard to be brave, said piglet, sniffing slightly, when you're only a very small animal.
Rabbit, who had begun to write very busily, looked up and said,
it is because you are a very small animal that you will be useful in the adventure before us.
Piglet was so excited at the idea of being useful that he forgot to be frightened anymore,
and when rabbit went on to say that kangas were only fierce during the winter months,
being at other times of an affectionate disposition, he could hardly sit still.
He was so eager to begin being useful at once.
What about me, said poo, sadly? I suppose I shan't be useful.
Never mind poo, said piglet comfortably.
Another time, perhaps.
Without poo, said rabbit, solemnly as he sharpened his pencil, the adventure would be impossible.
Ha! said piglet, and tried not to look disappointed.
But poo went into a corner of the room and said proudly to himself,
impossible without me, that sort of bear.
Now listen, all of you, said rabbit, when he'd finished writing,
and poo and piglet sat listening very eagerly with their mouths open.
This was what rabbit read out.
Plan to capture baby Roo.
One, general remarks.
Kanga runs faster than any of us even me.
Two, more general remarks.
Kanga never takes her eye off baby Roo, except when he's safely buttoned up in her pocket.
Three, therefore.
If we are to capture baby Roo, we must get a long start,
because Kanga runs faster than any of us even me.
See one.
Four, a thought.
If Roo had jumped out of Kanga's pocket and piglet had jumped in,
Kanga wouldn't know the difference, because piglet is a very small animal.
Five, like Roo.
Six, but Kanga would have to be looking the other way first,
so as not to see piglet jumping in.
Seven, see two.
Eight, another thought.
But if Pooh was talking to her very excitedly,
she might look the other way for a moment.
Nine, and then I could run away with Roo.
Ten, quickly.
Eleven, and Kanga wouldn't discover the difference until afterwards.
Well, Rabbit read this out proudly,
and for a little while after he'd read it, nobody said anything.
And then piglet, who'd be opening and shutting his mouth without making any noise,
managed to say very huskily.
And afterwards.
How do you mean?
When Kanga does discover the difference,
then we all say, aha!
All three of us?
Yes.
Huh.
Why, what's the trouble, piglet?
Nothing.
Said piglet.
As long as we all three say it.
I don't mind.
He said.
But I shouldn't care to say aha by myself.
It wouldn't sound nearly so well.
Either way.
He said.
You are quite sure about what you said about the winter months.
The winter months?
Yes.
Only being fierce.
In the winter months.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
That's all right.
Well, Poo, you see what you have to do?
No.
Said Poo Bear.
Not yet, he said.
What do I do?
Well, you just have to talk very hard to Kanga so she doesn't notice anything.
Oh.
What about?
Anything you like?
You mean like telling her a little bit of poetry or something?
That's it.
Said rabbit.
Splendid.
No.
Come along.
So they all went out to look for Kanga.
Kanga and Roo were spending a quiet afternoon in a sandy part of the forest.
Baby Roo was practicing very small jumps in the sand and falling down mouse holes and climbing out of them.
And Kanga was fidgeting about and saying, just one more jump there and then we must go home.
And at that moment, who should come stumping up the hill but Poo?
Good afternoon, Kanga.
Good afternoon, Poo.
Look at me jumping.
Sweet Roo and fell into another mouse hole.
Hello, Roo, my little fellow.
We were just going home.
Said Kanga.
Good afternoon, rabbit.
Good afternoon, piglet.
Rabbit and piglet who had now come up from the other side of the hill said, good afternoon and hello, Roo.
And Roo asked them to look at him jumping.
So they stayed and looked.
And Kanga looked too.
Oh, Kanga.
Said Poo.
After rabbit had winked at him twice.
I don't know if you are interested in poetry at all.
Hardly at all.
Said Kanga.
Oh, said Poo.
Roo dear, just one more jump and then we must go home.
There was a short silence while Roo fell down another mouse hole.
Go on, said rabbit, and a loud whisper behind his paw.
And talking of poetry, said Poo, I made up a little piece as I was coming along.
It went like this.
Let me see.
Fancy, said Kanga.
Now, Roo dear, you'll like this piece of poetry, said rabbit.
You love it.
Said piglet.
You must listen very carefully, said rabbit, so as not to miss any of it.
Oh, yeah, said Kanga.
But she still looked at baby Roo.
How did it go, Poo?
Said rabbit.
Poo gave a little cough and began.
Lines written by a bear of very little brain.
On Monday when the sun is hot, I wonder to myself a lot.
Now is it true or is it not?
That what is which and which is what?
On Tuesday when it hails and snows, the feeling on me grows and grows.
That hardly anybody knows if those are these or these are those.
On Wednesday when the sky is blue and I have nothing else to do,
I sometimes wonder if it's true that who is what and what is who.
On Thursday when it starts to freeze and whore frost twinkles on the trees,
how very readily one sees that these are who's.
But who's are these?
On Friday.
Yes it is, isn't it?
Said Kanga.
Not waiting to hear what happened on Friday.
Just one more jump road here, then we really must be going.
Rabbit gave Poo a hurrying up sort of nudge.
The talking of poetry, said Poo quickly.
Have you ever noticed that tree right over there?
Where?
Said Kanga.
Now Roo, right over there.
Said Poo, pointing behind Kanga's back.
No.
Said Kanga.
Now jump in Roo-Dian with her home.
You ought to look at that tree right over there.
Said Rabbit, shall I lift you in Roo?
He picked up Roo in his paws.
I can see a bird in it from here.
Said Poo, or is it a fish?
You ought to see that bird from here.
Said Rabbit, unless it is a fish.
It isn't a fish, it's a bird.
Said Piglet.
So it is, said Rabbit.
Is it a starling or a black bird?
Said Poo, that's the whole question.
Said Rabbit, is it a black bird or a starling?
And then, at last, Kanga did turn her head to look.
And the moment that her head was turned, Rabbit said in a loud voice,
In you go, Roo.
And in jumped Piglet into Kanga's pocket.
And off-scampered Rabbit with Roo in his paws as fast as he could.
Why, where's Rabbit?
Said Kanga, turning around again.
Are you all right, Roo-Dian?
Piglet made a squeaky Roo noise from the bottom of Kanga's pocket.
Rabbit had to go away, said Poo.
I think he thought of something he had to go and see about, suddenly.
And Piglet?
I think Piglet thought of something at the same time, suddenly.
Well, we must be getting home, said Kanga.
Goodbye, Poo.
And in three large jumps, she was gone.
Poo looked after her, she went.
I wish I could jump like that, he thought.
Some can, and some can't.
That's how it is.
But there were moments when Piglet wished that Kanga couldn't.
Often, when he'd had a long walk home through the forest, he'd wished that he were a bird,
but now he thought jerkily to himself at the bottom of Kanga's pocket,
if this is flying, I shall never really take to it.
And as he went up in the air, he said,
Ooooooh.
And as he came down, he said,
Ahhh.
And he was saying,
Ooooooh.
Ahhh.
All the way to Kanga's house.
Of course, as soon as Kanga unbuttoned her pocket, she saw what had happened.
Just for a moment, she thought she was frightened.
And then she knew she wasn't, for she felt sure that Christopher Robin would never let any harm happen to Roo.
So she said to herself,
If they are having a joke with me, I will have a joke with them.
Now then, Roo dear.
She said as she took Piglet out of her pocket.
Bet time.
Ahhh.
Said Piglet.
As well as he could after his terrifying journey.
But it wasn't a very good aha, and Kanga didn't seem to understand what it meant.
Bath first said Kanga in a cheerful voice.
Ahhh.
Said Piglet again, looking round anxiously for the others, but the others weren't there.
Rabbit was playing with Baby Roo in his own house,
and feeling more fond of him every minute.
And Poo, who had decided to be a Kanga, was still at the sandy place on the top of the forest, practicing jumps.
I'm not at all sure, said Kanga, in a thoughtful voice, that it wouldn't be a good idea to have a cold bath this evening.
Would you like that Roo dear?
Piglet, who had never been really fond of Bath's, shuttered a long, indignant shutter, and said in as brave a voice as he could.
Kanga?
I see that the time has come to speak plainly.
Funny little Roo, said Kanga, as she got the bath water ready.
I am not Roo, said Piglet loudly.
I'm Piglet!
Yes dear, yes, said Kanga soothingly, and imitating Piglet's voice too, so clever of him.
She went on and she took a large bar of yellow soap out of the cupboard.
What will he be doing next?
Can't you sing?
Shouted Piglet, having you come in the eyes, look at me!
I am looking Roo dear, said Kanga rather severely, and you know what I told you yesterday about making faces.
If you go on making faces like Piglet's, you will grow up to look like Piglet and then think how sorry you'll be.
Now then, into the bath and don't let me have to speak to you about it again.
Before he knew where he was, Piglet was in the bath, and Kanga was scrubbing him firmly with a large, lathery flannel.
Ah-how!
Quite Piglet!
Let me out on Piglet!
Don't happen the mouth dear, or the soap goes in, said Kanga.
There, what did I tell you?
You did it on purpose!
Spluttered Piglet as soon as he could speak again, and then accidentally had another mouth full of lathery flannel.
That's right dear, don't say anything, said Kanga.
And, in another minute, Piglet was out of the bath and being rubbed dry with a towel.
Now, said Kanga, there she metzen, and then bed.
Well, what metzen?
Said Piglet.
To make you grow big and strung dear, you don't want to grow up small and weak like Piglet, do you?
Well then.
At that moment, there was a knock at the door.
Come in, said Kanga.
And in came Christopher Robin.
Christopher Robin, Christopher Robin!
Clyde Piglet, tell Kanga who I am!
She keeps saying, I'm Rue, I'm not Rue, am I?
Christopher Robin looked at him very carefully and shook his head.
You can't be Rue, he said.
Because I've just seen Rue playing in Rabbit's house.
Well, said Kanga.
Fancy that.
Fancy my making a mistake like that.
There you are!
Said Piglet.
I told you so, I'm Piglet!
Christopher Robin shook his head again.
Oh, you're not Piglet.
He said, I know Piglet well.
And he's quite a different colour.
Piglet began to say that this was because he had just had a bath.
And then he thought that perhaps he wouldn't say that.
And as he opened his mouth to say something else, Kanga slipped the medicine spoon in.
And then patted him on the back and told him that it was really quite a nice taste when you got used to it.
I knew it wasn't Piglet, said Kanga.
I wonder who it can be.
Perhaps it's some relation of poos, said Christopher Robin.
But a nephew or an uncle or something.
Kanga agreed that this was probably what it was and said that they would have to call it by some name.
I shall call it Poodle, said Christopher Robin, Henry Poodle for short.
And just when he was decided, Henry Poodle wriggled out of Kanga's arms and jumped to the ground.
To his great joy, Christopher Robin had left the door open.
He never had Henry Poodle Piglet run so fast as he ran then.
And he didn't stop running until he got quite close to his house.
But when he was 100 yards away, he stopped running and rolled the rest of the way home.
So as to get his own nice, comfortable colour again.
So Kanga and Ru stayed in the forest.
And every Tuesday Ru spent the day with his great friend Rabbit.
And every Tuesday Kanga spent the day with her great friend Poo, teaching him to jump.
And every Tuesday Piglet spent the day with his great friend Christopher Robin.
So they were all happy again.
Chapter 8, in which Christopher Robin leads an expedition to the North Pole.
One fine day, Poo had stumped up to the top of the forest.
To see of his friend Christopher Robin was interested in bears at all.
At breakfast that morning, a simple meal of marmalade spread lightly over a honeycomb or two.
He had suddenly thought of a new song.
It began like this.
Sing ho for the life of a bear.
When you've got as far as this, he scratched his head and thought to himself,
that's a very good start for a song, but what about the second line?
He tried singing ho two or three times, but it didn't seem to help.
Perhaps it would be better, he thought, if I sang hi for the life of a bear,
so he sang it, but it wasn't.
Very well then, he said, I shall sing that first line twice.
And perhaps if I sing it very quickly, I shall find myself singing the third and fourth lines
before I have time to think of them, and that will be a good song.
Now then, sing ho for the life of a bear.
Sing ho for the life of a bear.
I don't much mind if it rains or snows,
because I've got a lot of honey on my nice new nose.
I don't much care if it snows or thaws,
because I've got a lot of honey on my nice clean paws.
Sing ho for a bear.
Sing ho for a poo and I'll have a little something in an hour or two.
He was so pleased with this song that he sang it all the way to the top of the forest.
And if I go on singing much longer, he thought,
it will be time for the little something, and then the last line won't be true.
So he turned it into a hum instead.
Christopher Robin was sitting outside his door, putting on his big boots.
As soon as he saw the big boots, poo knew that an adventure was going to happen.
And he brushed the honey off his nose with the back of his paw
and spruced himself up as well as he could, so as to look ready for anything.
Good morning, Christopher Robin, he called out.
Hello, poo bear, I can't get this boot on.
That's bad, said poo.
Do you think you could very kindly lean against me,
because I keep pulling so hard that I fall over backwards?
Poo sat down, dug his feet into the ground,
and pushed hard against Christopher Robin's back.
And Christopher Robin pushed hard against his,
and pulled and pulled his boot until he had got it on.
And that's that, said poo.
What do we do next?
We are all going on an expedition, said Christopher Robin, as he got up and brushed himself.
Thank you, poo.
Going on an expedition, said poo eagerly,
I don't think I've ever been on one of those.
Where are we going to on this expedition?
Expedition, silly old bear.
It's got an X in it.
Oh, said poo.
I know, but he didn't really.
We're going to discover the North Pole.
Oh, said poo again.
What is the North Pole, he asked?
Just a thing you discover, said Christopher Robin carelessly,
not being quite sure himself.
Oh, I see, said poo.
Are bears any good at discovering it?
Of course they are.
And rabbit, and kanga, and all of you, it's an expedition.
That's what an expedition means, a long line of everybody.
You better tell the others to get ready while I see my guns all right.
And we must all bring provisions.
Bring what?
Things to eat.
Oh, said poo happily.
I thought you said provisions.
I'll go and tell them.
And he stumped off.
The first person he met was rabbit.
Hello, rabbit, he said, is that you?
Let's pretend it isn't, said rabbit, and see what happens.
I've got a message for you.
I'll give it to him.
We're all going on an expedition with Christopher Robin.
What is it when we're on it?
A sort of boat, I think, said poo.
Oh, that's sort.
Yes, and we're going to discover a pole or something.
Or was it a mole?
Anyhow, we're going to discover it.
We are, are we?
Said rabbit.
Yes, and we've got to bring pro things to eat with us
in case we want to eat them.
Now I'm going down to piglets.
Tell kanga, will you?
He left rabbit and hurried down to piglets' house.
The piglet was sitting on the ground at the door of his house,
blowing happily at a dandelion,
and wondering whether it would be this year, next year, sometime or never.
He had just discovered that it would be never.
I was trying to remember what it was
and hoping it wasn't anything nice.
When poo came up.
Oh, piglet, said poo excitedly.
We're going on an expedition, all of us with things to eat,
to discover something.
To discover what?
Said piglet, anxiously.
Oh, just something.
Nothing fierce.
Christopher Robin didn't say anything about fierce.
He just said it had an X.
It isn't their next, her mind.
Said piglet, earnestly.
It said teeth, but if Christopher Robin is coming,
I don't mind anything.
In a little while they were all ready at the top of the forest,
and the expedition started.
First came Christopher Robin and rabbit,
then piglet and poo,
then kanga, with ruin her pocket,
and owl, then eaw,
and at the end, in a long line,
all rabbits, friends, and relations.
I didn't ask them, explain rabbit carelessly.
They just came.
They always do.
They can march at the end after eaw.
What I say, said eaw,
is that it's unsettling.
I didn't want to come on this expo,
what poo said.
I only came to oblige, but here I am,
and if I am the end of the expo,
what we're talking about,
then let me be the end.
But if every time I want to sit down for a little rest,
I have to brush away half a dozen of rabbits,
smaller friends and relations first,
then this isn't an expo, whatever it is at all.
It's simply a confused noise.
That's what I say.
I see what eaw means, said owl.
If you ask me,
I'm not asking anybody, said eaw.
I'm just telling everybody.
We can look for the North Pole,
or we can play,
here we go gathering nuts and may,
with the end part of an ant's nest.
It's all the same to me.
There was a shout from the top of the line.
Come on,
called Christopher Robin.
Come on, called poo and piglet.
Come on, called owl.
We're starting, said rabbit.
I must go,
and he hurried after the front of the expedition
with Christopher Robin.
All right, said eaw.
We're going,
only don't blame me.
So off they all went to discover the pole.
And as they walked,
they chatted to each other of this and that,
all except poo, who was making up a song.
This is the first verse he said to piglet
when he was ready with it.
First verse of what?
My song.
What song?
This one,
which one?
Well, if you listen, piglet,
you'll hear it.
How do you know I'm not listening?
Poo couldn't answer that one.
So he began to sing.
They all went off to discover the pole,
owl and piglet and rabbit and all.
It's a thing you discover as I've been told
by owl and piglet and rabbit and all.
Eaw Christopher Robin and poo and rabbit's relations
all went to.
And where the pole was none of them knew.
Sing hey for owl and rabbit and all.
Hush.
Said Christopher Robin,
turning round to poo.
We're just coming to a dangerous place.
Hush.
Said poo.
Turning round quickly to piglet.
Hush.
Said piglet to kanga.
Said kanga to owl,
while Rue said Hush several times to himself,
but he quieted.
Hush.
Said owl to Eaw.
Said Eaw in a terrible voice to all rabbit's friends
and relations and Hush they said hastily to each other,
all down the line until it got to the last one of all.
And the last and smallest friend and relation was so upset
to find that the whole expedition was saying Hush to him
that he buried himself head downwards in a crack in the ground
and stayed there for two days until the danger was over
and then went home in a great hurry
and lived quietly with his aunt ever afterwards.
His name was Alexander Beatle.
They had come to a stream which twisted and tumbled
between high rocky banks
and Christopher Robin saw at once how dangerous it was.
It's just the place he explained for an ambush.
What sort of bush whispered poo to piglet?
A gorse bush?
My dear poo, said owl in his superior way,
don't you know what an ambush is?
Owl?
Said piglet, looking round at him severely.
Poof whisper was a perfectly private whisper
and there was no need.
An ambush, said owl, is a sort of surprise.
So is a gorse bush sometimes, said poo.
An ambush, as I was about to explain to poo, said piglet,
is a sort of surprise.
If people jump out at you suddenly, that's an ambush, said owl.
It's an ambush poo when people jump at you suddenly, explained piglet.
Poo, who now knew what an ambush was, said that a gorse bush
had sprung at him suddenly one day when he fell off a tree
and he had taken six days to get all the prickles out of himself.
We are not talking about gorse bushes, said owl, a little crossly.
I am, said poo.
They were climbing very cautiously up the stream now,
going from rock to rock.
And after they'd gone a little way, they came to a place
where the banks widened out at each side,
so that on each side of the water,
there was a level strip of grass on which they could sit down and rest.
As soon as he saw this, Christopher Robin called,
halt, and they all sat down and rested.
I think, said Christopher Robin, that we ought to eat all our provisions now,
so that we shan't have so much to carry.
Eat all our what, said poo.
All that we've brought, said piglet, getting to work.
That's a good idea, said poo.
And he got to work too.
Have you all got something?
Ask Christopher Robin with his mouth full.
All except me.
Said Eor.
As usual.
He looked round at them in his melancholy way.
I suppose none of you were sitting on a thistle by an enchant.
I believe I am, said poo.
Ow!
He got up and looked behind him.
Yes, I was.
I thought so.
Thank you, poo.
If you've quite finished with it.
He moved across to poo's place and began to eat.
It doesn't do them any good, you know.
Sitting on them, he went on, as he looked up, munching.
Takes all the life out of them.
Remember that another time.
All of you.
A little consideration.
A little thought for others makes all the difference.
As soon as he had finished his lunch, Christopher Robin whispered to Rabbit,
and Rabbit said, yes, yes, of course.
And they walked a little way up the stream together.
I didn't want the others to hear, said Christopher Robin.
Quite so, said Rabbit.
Looking important.
It's, I wonder it, it's only...
Rabbit, I suppose you don't know.
What does the North Pole look like?
Well, said Rabbit, stroking his whiskers.
Now you're asking me.
I did know once only I've sort of forgotten, said Christopher Robin, carelessly.
It's a funny thing, said Rabbit, but I've sort of forgotten too.
Although I did know once, I suppose it's just a pole stuck in the ground.
Sure to be a pole, said Rabbit, because of calling it a pole.
And if it's a pole, well, I should think it would be sticking in the ground, shouldn't you?
Because there'd be nowhere else to stick it.
Yes, that's what I thought.
The only thing, said Rabbit, is where is it sticking?
That's what we're looking for, said Christopher Robin.
They went back to the others.
Piglet was lying on his back, sleeping peacefully.
Rue was washing his face and paws in the stream,
while Canger explained to everybody proudly that this was the first time he had ever washed his face himself.
And all was telling Canger an interesting anecdote full of long words like encyclopedia
and rhododendron to which Canger wasn't listening.
I don't all with all his washing grumbled ear.
This modern behind the ears nonsense.
What do you think, Pooh?
Well, said Pooh, I think, but we shall never know what Pooh thought.
For they came a sudden squeak from Rue, a splash, and a loud cry of alarm from Canger.
So much for washing, said Eor.
Rue's fallen in, cried Rabbit, and he and Christopher Robin came rushing down to the rescue.
Look at me, swimming!
Sweet Rue, from the middle of his pool, and was hurried down a waterfall into the next pool.
Are you all right, Rue, dear?
called Canger, anxiously.
Yes, said Rue.
Look at me, sweet!
And down he went over the next waterfall into another pool.
Everybody was doing something to help.
Piglet wide awake suddenly was jumping up and down and making,
Oh, I say, noises.
Owl was explaining that in a case of sudden and temporary immersion,
the important thing was to keep the head above water.
Canger was jumping along the bank saying,
Are you sure you're all right, Rue, dear?
To which Rue, from whatever pool he was in at the moment, was answering,
Little Beast, swimming!
Eor had turned round and hung his tail over the first pool into which Rue fell,
and with his back to the accident was grumbling quietly to himself and saying,
Oh, this washing, but catch on to my tail, little Rue, and you'll be all right.
And Christopher Robin and Rabbit came hurrying past Eor and were calling out to the others in front of them.
All right, Rue, I'm coming!
Oh, Christopher Robin, get something across the stream lower down, some of you fellas, called Rabbit.
But Poo was getting something.
Two pools below Rue, he was standing with a long pole in his paws,
and Canger came up and took one end of it, and between them they held it across the lower part of the pool.
And Rue still bubbling proudly.
Look at me, swimming!
Drifted up against it and climbed out.
Did you see me swimming?
Squeaked Rue excitedly, while Canger scolded him and rubbed him down.
Poo, did you see me swimming? That's called swimming! What I was doing? Rabbit, did you see what I was doing?
Swimming, and I picked it! I said I picked it! What do you think I was doing? Swimming!
Christopher Robin, did you see me?
But Christopher Robin wasn't listening. He was looking at Poo.
Poo, he said, where did you find that pole?
Poo looked at the pole in his hands.
I just found it, he said. I thought it ought to be useful, I just picked it up.
Poo, said Christopher Robin solemnly.
The expedition is over. You have found the North Pole.
Oh, said Poo.
Eor was sitting with his tail in the water when they all got back to him.
Tell Rue to be quick, somebody, he said.
My tail's getting cold. I don't want to mention it, but I just mention it.
I don't want to complain, but there it is. My tail's cold.
Here I am, Squeaked Rue.
Oh, there you are.
Did you see me swimming?
Eor took his tail out of the water and swished it from side to side.
As I expected, he said, lost all feeling.
Numbed it. That's what it's done. Numbed it.
Well, as long as nobody minds, I suppose it's all right.
Poor old Eor. I'll dry it for you, said Christopher Robin.
And he took out his handkerchief and rubbed it up.
Thank you, Christopher Robin. You're the only one who seems to understand about tails.
They don't think that's what's the matter with some of these others.
They've no imagination. A tail isn't a tail to them.
It's just a little bit extra at the back.
Never mind, Eor, said Christopher Robin, rubbing his hardest.
Is that better?
It's feeling more like a tail, perhaps.
It belongs again, if you know what I mean.
Hello, Eor, said Pooh, coming up to them with his pole.
Hello, Pooh. Thank you for asking, but I shall be able to use it again in a day or two.
Use what, said Pooh.
What we're talking about.
I wasn't talking about anything, said Pooh, looking puzzled.
My mistake again, I thought you were saying how sorry you were about my tail being all numb.
And could you do anything to help?
No, said Pooh. That wasn't me, he said.
He thought for a little, and then suggested, hopefully.
Perhaps it was somebody else.
Well, thank him for me when you see him.
Pooh looked anxiously at Christopher Robin.
Pooh's found the North Pole, said Christopher Robin. Isn't that lovely?
Pooh looked modestly down.
Is that it?
Said Eor. Yes, said Christopher Robin.
Is that what we were looking for?
Yes, said Pooh.
Oh, said Eor.
Well, anyhow, it didn't rain, he said.
They stuck the pole in the ground, and Christopher Robin tied a message onto it.
North Pole, discovered by Pooh. Pooh found it.
Then they all went home again.
And I think, but I'm not quite sure, that Rue had a hot bath and went straight to bed.
But Pooh went back to his own house, and feeling very proud of what he had done,
had a little something to revive himself.
Chapter 9, in which Piglet is entirely surrounded by water.
It rained, and it rained, and it rained.
Piglet told himself that never, in all his life, and he was goodness knows how old,
three was it, or four, never had he seen so much rain, days and days and days.
If only, he thought, as he looked out of the window, I had been in Pooh's household,
Christopher Robin's household, rabbit's house when it began to rain,
then I should have had company all this time instead of being here,
all alone with nothing to do except wonder when it will stop.
And he imagined himself with Pooh saying,
Did you ever see such rain, Pooh?
And Pooh saying, isn't it awful, Piglet, and Piglet saying,
I wonder how it is, have a Christopher Robin's way?
And Pooh saying, I should think poor old rabbit is about flooded out by this time.
It would have been jolly to talk like this, and really, it wasn't much good having anything exciting like floods
if you couldn't share them with somebody, for it was rather exciting.
The little dry ditches in which Piglet had knows about so often had become streams.
The little streams across which he had splashed were rivers,
and the river between whose steep banks they had played so happily had sprawled out of its own bed
and was taking up so much room everywhere that Piglet was beginning to wonder whether it would be coming into his bed soon.
It's a little anxious, he said to himself, to be a very small animal entirely surrounded by water.
Christopher Robin and Pooh could escape by climbing trees and kanga could escape by jumping and rabbit could escape by burrowing
and how could escape by flying and you or could escape by making a loud noise until rescued
and here am I surrounded by water and I can't do anything.
It went on raining and every day the water got a little higher until now it was nearly up to Piglet's window
and still he hadn't done anything.
There's Pooh, he thought to himself. Pooh hasn't much brain, but he never comes to any harm.
He does silly things and they turn out right.
That's Howell. Howell hasn't exactly got brain, but he knows things.
He would know the right thing to do when surrounded by water.
There's rabbit, he hasn't learnt in books, but he can always think of a clever plan.
There's kanga, she isn't clever, kanga isn't, but she would be so anxious about Rue that she would do a good thing to do without thinking about it.
And then there's eel, and eel is so miserable anyhow that he wouldn't mind about this, but I wonder what Christopher Robin would do.
Then suddenly he remembered a story which Christopher Robin had told him about a man on a desert island
who had written something in a bottle and thrown it into the sea.
And Piglet thought that if he wrote something in a bottle and threw it in the water, perhaps somebody would come and rescue him.
He left the window and began to search his house, all of it that wasn't under water, and at last he found a pencil and a small piece of dry paper and a bottle with a cork to it.
And he wrote on one side of the paper, Help! Piglet! Me! And on the other side, it's me, Piglet! Help! Help!
Then he put the paper in the bottle and he corked the bottle up as tightly as he could, and he lent out of his window as far as he could lean without falling in, and he threw the bottle as far as he could throw. Splash!
And in a little while it bobbed up again on the water, and he watched it floating slowly away in the distance until his eyes ached with looking.
And sometimes he thought it was the bottle, and sometimes he thought it was just a ripple on the water which he was following.
And then suddenly he knew that he would never see it again, and that he had done all that he could do to save himself.
So now he thought somebody else will have to do something, and I hope they'll do it soon because if they don't, I shall have to swim, which I can't, so I hope they'll do it soon.
And then he gave a very long sigh and said, I wish Pooh were here, he's so much more friendly with too.
When the rain began, Pooh was asleep. It rained, and it rained, and it rained, and he slept, and he slept, and he slept.
He had had a tiring day. You remember how he discovered the North Pole? Well, he was so proud of this that he asked Christopher Robin if there were any other poles such as a bear of little brain might discover.
There's a South Pole, said Christopher Robin, and I expect there's an East Pole and a West Pole, though people don't like talking about them.
Pooh was very excited when he heard this, and suggested that they should have an expedition to discover the East Pole.
But Christopher Robin had thought of something else to do with Kanga, so Pooh went out to discover the East Pole by himself.
Whether he discovered it or not, I forget, but he was so tired when he got home that in the very middle of his supper, after he'd been eating for little more than half an hour, he fell fast asleep in his chair, and slept, and slept, and slept.
Then, suddenly, he was dreaming. He was at the East Pole, and it was a very cold pole, with the coldest sort of snow and ice all over it.
He had found a beehive to sleep in, but there wasn't room for his legs, so he'd left them outside.
And wild woozels, such as inhabit the East Pole, came and nibbled all the fur off his legs to make nests for their young.
And the more they nibbled, the colder his legs got, until suddenly he woke up with them, aah!
And there he was, sitting in his chair, with his feet in the water, and water all round him.
He splashed to his door and looked out.
This is serious, said Pooh. I must have an escape!
So he took his largest pot of honey and escaped with it, to a broad branch of history, well above the water, and then he climbed down again and escaped with another pot.
And when the whole escape was finished, there was Pooh sitting on his branch, dangling his legs, and there beside him were ten pots of honey.
Two days later, there was Pooh sitting on his branch, dangling his legs, and there beside him were four pots of honey.
Three days later, there was Pooh sitting on his branch, dangling his legs, and there beside him was one pot of honey.
Four days later, there was Pooh.
And it was on the morning of the fourth day, that piglet's bottle came floating past him, and with one loud cry of honey!
Pooh plunged into the water, seized the bottle, and struggled back to history again.
Bother, said Pooh, as he opened it, all that wet for nothing.
What's that bit of paper doing?
He took it out and looked.
It's a message, he said to himself. That's what it is.
And that letter is a P, and so is that, and so is that, and P means Pooh, so it's a very important message to me.
And I can't read it. I must find Christopher Robin, or Owl, or Piglet, one of those clever readers who can read things, and they will tell me what this message means.
Only I can't swim. Bother.
Then he had an idea, and I think that for a bear of very little brain, it was a good idea.
He said to himself, if a bottle can float, then a jar can float, and if a jar floats, I can sit on the top of it, if it's a very big jar.
So he took his biggest jar and caught it up.
All boats have to have a name, he said. So I shall call mine the floating bear.
And with these words, he dropped his boat into the water and jumped in after it.
For a little while, Pooh and the floating bear were uncertain as to which of them was meant to be on the top.
But after trying one or two different positions, they settled down with the floating bear underneath, and Pooh, triumphantly, has strided, paddling vigorously with his feet.
Christopher Robin lived at the very top of the forest.
It rained, and it rained, and it rained. But the water couldn't come up to his house.
It was rather jolly to look down into the valleys and see the water all around him.
But it rained so hard that he stayed indoors most of the time and thought about things.
Every morning he went out with his umbrella and put a stick in the place where the water came up to.
And every next morning he went out and couldn't see his stick anymore.
So he put another stick in the place where the water came up to.
And then he walked home again, and each morning he had a shorter way to walk than he had had the morning before.
On the morning of the fifth day, he saw the water all around him
and knew that for the first time in his life he was on a real island, which was very exciting.
It was on this morning that Owl came flying over the water to say, how do you do to his friend Christopher Robin?
I say, Owl, isn't this fun? I'm on an island.
The atmospheric conditions have been very unfavorable lately, said Owl.
The what? It has been raining, explained Owl.
Yes, said Christopher Robin. It has.
The flood level has reached an unprecedented height.
The who? There's a lot of water about, explained Owl.
Yes, said Christopher Robin. There is.
However, the prospects are rapidly becoming more favorable.
At any moment, have you seen Pooh?
No. At any moment, I hope he's all right, said Christopher Robin.
I've been wondering about him. I expect piglets with him.
Do you think they're all right, Owl?
I expect so. You'll see. At any moment, do go and see Owl, because Pooh hasn't got very much brain and he might do something silly.
And I do love him, so Owl. Do you see Owl?
That's all right, said Owl. I'll go back directly.
And he flew off. In a little while, he was back again.
Pooh isn't there, he said. Not there.
He's been there. He's been sitting on a branch of his tree outside his house with nine pots of honey.
But he isn't there now.
Oh, Pooh, cried Christopher Robin. Where are you?
Here I am, said a growly voice behind him.
Pooh! They rushed into each other's arms.
How did you get here, Pooh? asked Christopher Robin when he was ready to talk again.
On my boat, said Pooh proudly.
I had a very important message sent me in a bottle.
And owing to having got some water in my eyes, I couldn't read it, so I brought it to you. On my boat.
With these proud words, he gave Christopher Robin the message.
But it's from Piglet, quite Christopher Robin, when he'd read it.
Isn't there anything about Pooh in it? asked Bear, looking over his shoulder.
Christopher Robin read the message aloud.
Oh, are those peas, Piglets? I thought they were Pooh's.
We must rescue him at once. I thought he was with you, Pooh.
Owl, could you rescue him on your back?
I don't think so, said Owl after grave thought.
It is doubtful if the necessary dorsal muscles.
Then would you fly to him at once and say that rescue is coming?
And Pooh and I will think of a rescue and come as quick as ever we can.
Oh, don't talk, Owl, go on quick!
And still thinking of something to say, Owl flew off.
Now then, Pooh, said Christopher Robin, where's your boat?
I ought to say, explain Pooh, as they walk down to the shore of the island, that it isn't just an ordinary sort of boat.
Sometimes it's a boat and sometimes it's more of an accident. It all depends.
Depends on what, on whether I'm on the top of it or underneath it.
Oh, well, where is it? There, said Pooh, pointing proudly to the floating bear.
It wasn't what Christopher Robin expected.
And the more he looked at it, the more he thought what a brave and clever bear Pooh was.
And the more Christopher Robin thought this, the more Pooh looked modestly down his nose and tried to pretend he wasn't.
But it's too small for two of us, said Christopher Robin sadly.
Three of us with piglet. That makes it smaller still.
Pooh bear, what shall we do?
And then this bear, Pooh bear, Winnie the Pooh, F-O-P, friend of piglets.
R-C, rabbit's companion.
P-D, pole discoverer.
E-C and T-F, Eor's comforter and tailfinder.
In fact, Pooh himself said something so clever that Christopher Robin could only look at him with mouth, open and eyes staring.
Wondering if this was really the bear of very little brain, whom he had known and loved so long.
We might go in your umbrella, said Pooh.
Hmm? We might go in your umbrella, said Pooh.
Hmm?
We might go in your umbrella, said Pooh.
For suddenly Christopher Robin saw that they might.
He opened his umbrella and put it point downwards in the water.
It floated, but wobbled. Pooh got in.
He was just beginning to say that it was alright now when he found that it wasn't.
So, after a short drink, which he didn't really want, he waded back to Christopher Robin.
Then they both got in together and it wobbled no longer.
I shall call this boat the brain of Pooh, said Christopher Robin, and the brain of Pooh set sail forthwith in a southwesterly direction, revolving gracefully.
You can imagine Piglet's joy when at last the ship came inside of him.
In after years, he liked to think that he had been in very great danger during the terrible flood.
But the only danger he had really been in was the last half hour of his imprisonment.
When Owl, who had just flown up, sat on a branch of his tree to comfort him, and told him a very long story about an aunt who had once laid a seagulls egg by mistake.
And the story went on and on rather like this sentence, until Piglet, who was listening out of his window without much hope, went to sleep quietly and naturally, slipping slowly out of the window towards the water,
until he was only hanging on by his toes, at which moment luckily a sudden loud squawk from Owl, which was really part of the story, being what his aunt said, woke the Piglet up, and just gave him time to jerk himself back into safety and say,
How interesting, and did she?
When, well, you can imagine his joy when at last he saw the good ship, Brain of Pooh, Captain C. Robin, First Mate P. Bear, coming over the sea to rescue him.
And as that is really the end of the story, and I am very tired after that last sentence, I think I shall stop there.
Chapter 10, in which Christopher Robin gives a Pooh party, and we say goodbye.
One day when the sun had come back over the forest, bringing with it the scent of May, and all the streams of the forest were tinkling happily to find themselves their own pretty shape again,
and the little pools lay dreaming of the life they had seen and the big things they had done, and in the warmth and quiet of the forest,
the cuckoo was trying over his voice carefully and listening to see if he liked it.
And wood pigeons were complaining gently to themselves in their lazy, comfortable way that it was the other fellas' fault, but it didn't matter very much.
On such a day as this, Christopher Robin whistled in a special way he had, and Owl came flying out of the 100-acre wood to see what was wanted.
Owl, said Christopher Robin, I am going to give a party.
You are, are you, said Owl, and it's to be a special sort of party, because of what Pooh did when he did what he did to save Piglet from the flood.
Oh, that's what it's for, is it, said Owl? Yes.
So will you tell Pooh as quickly as you can, and all the others, because it will be tomorrow?
Oh, it will, will it, said Owl, still being as helpful as possible.
So will you go and tell them Owl?
Owl tried to think of something very wise to say, but couldn't, so he flew off to tell the others.
And the first person he told was Pooh.
Pooh, he said, Christopher Robin is giving a party.
Oh, said Pooh.
And then seeing that Owl expected him to say something else, he said, will there be those little cake things with pink sugar icing?
Owl felt that it was rather beneath him to talk about little cake things with pink sugar icing, so he told Pooh exactly what Christopher Robin had said,
and flew off to Eor.
A party, for me, thought Pooh to himself. How grand.
And he began to wonder if all the other animals would know that it was a special Pooh party.
And if Christopher Robin had told them about the floating bear and the brain of Pooh and all the wonderful ships he had invented and sailed on,
and he began to think how awful it would be if everybody had forgotten about it, and nobody quite knew what the party was for.
And the more he thought like this, the more the party got muddled in his mind, like a dream when nothing goes right.
And the dream began to sing itself over in his head until it became a sort of song.
It was an anxious Pooh song.
Three cheers for Pooh, for Pooh, for Pooh. Why, what did he do? I thought you knew. He saved his friend from a wedding.
Three cheers for bear, for where? For bear. He couldn't swim, but he rescued him. He rescued who?
Listen, do I am talking of Pooh, of Pooh. I'm sorry, I keep forgetting. Well, Pooh was a bear of enormous brain.
Just say it again. Of enormous brain. Of enormous what? Well, he ate a lot. And I don't know if he could swim or not, but he managed to float on a sort of boat.
What a sort of what? Well, a sort of pot. So now let's give him three hearty cheers. So now let's give him three hearty witches.
And hope he'll be with us for years and years, and grow in health and wisdom and riches. Three cheers for Pooh, for Pooh, for Pooh.
Three cheers for bear, for where? For bear. Three cheers for the wonderful Willy the Pooh.
Just tell me somebody. What did he do? While this was going on inside him, Owl was talking to Eor.
Eor? said Owl. Christopher Robin is giving a party.
Very interesting, said Eor. I suppose they'll be sending me down the odd bits which got trodden on.
Kind and thoughtful, not at all. Don't mention it.
There is an invitation for you. What's that like? An invitation? Yes, I heard you who dropped it.
This isn't anything to eat. It's asking you to the party tomorrow.
Eor shook his head slowly. You mean piglet? The little fell over the excited ears. That's piglet. I'll tell him.
No, no, said Owl, getting quite fussy. It's you. Are you sure?
Of course I'm sure. Christopher Robin said all of them. Tell all of them. All of them, except Eor.
All of them, said Owl, sulkyly.
Ah, said Eor. A mistake, no doubt. But still I shall come. Only don't blame me if it rains.
But it didn't rain. Christopher Robin had made a long table out of some long pieces of wood and they all sat round it.
Christopher Robin sat at one end and poo sat at the other. And between them on one side were Owl and Eor and Piglet.
And between them on the other side were Rabbit and Rue and Canga.
And all Rabbit's friends and relations spread themselves about on the grass and waited hopefully in case anybody spoke to them or dropped anything or asked them the time.
It was the first party to which Rue had ever been and he was very excited. As soon as ever they had sat down he began to talk.
Hello, Poo. He squeaked. Hello, Rue, said Poo.
Rue jumped up and down in his seat for a little while and then began again.
Hello, Piglet. He squeaked. Piglet waved a paw at him being too busy to say anything.
Hello, Eor. Said Rue. Eor nodded gloomily at him.
It will rain soon. You see if it doesn't, he said.
Rue looked to see if it didn't and it didn't. So he said,
Hello Owl. And Owl said,
Hello, my little fellow, in a kindly way.
I went on telling Christopher Robin about an accident which had nearly happened to a friend of his whom Christopher Robin didn't know.
And Canga said to Rue, drink up your milk first year and talk afterwards.
So Rue who was drinking his milk tried to say that he could do both at once and had to be patted on the back and dried for quite a long time afterwards.
When they had all nearly eaten enough, Christopher Robin banged on the table with his spoon and everybody stopped talking and was very silent except Rue who was just finishing a loud attack of hiccups and trying to look as if it was one of rabbit's relations.
This party, said Christopher Robin, is a party because of what someone did.
And we all know who it was and it's his party because of what he did.
And I've got a present for him and here it is.
Then he felt about a little whispered,
Where is it?
While he was looking, Eor coughed in an impressive way and began to speak.
Friends, he said, including oddments.
It is a great pleasure or perhaps I'd better say it has been a pleasure so far to see you at my party.
What I did was nothing.
Any of you except rabbit and owl and Canga would have done the same.
Oh, and poo.
Murray Marx do not of course apply to piglet and room because they are too small.
Any of you would have done the same, but it just happened to be me.
It was not I need hardly say with an idea of getting what Christopher Robin is looking for now.
And he put his front leg to his mouth and said in a loud whisper,
Try under the table that I did and what I did, but because I feel that we should all do what we can to help,
I feel we should all.
Said Rue accidentally.
Rue, dear, said Canga, reproachfully.
Was it me?
Ask Rue a little surprised.
What's Eor talking about?
Piglet whispered to Pooh.
I don't know, said Pooh, rather dolefully.
I thought this was your party.
I thought it was once, but I suppose it isn't.
I'd sooner it was yours than Eor's.
Said Piglet.
So would I, said Pooh.
Look, said Rue again.
As I was saying, said Eor loudly and sternly,
As I was saying when I was interrupted by various loud sounds,
I feel that it is quite Christopher Robin excitedly.
Pass it down to Silio Pooh.
It's for Pooh.
For Pooh?
Said Eor.
Of course it is.
The best bear in all the world.
I might have known, said Eor.
After all, one can't complain.
I have my friends.
Somebody spoke to me only yesterday.
And was it last week, or the week before,
That rabbit bumped into me and said,
Mother, the social round.
Oh, is something going on?
Nobody was listening for.
They were all saying, open it Pooh.
What is it Pooh?
I know what it is.
No, you don't.
And other helpful remarks of this sort.
Of course, Pooh was opening it as quickly as ever he could,
But without cutting the string because you never know when a bit of string might be useful.
At last, it was undone.
When Pooh saw what it was, he nearly fell down.
He was so pleased.
It was a special pencil case.
There were pencils in it marked B for bear,
And pencils marked HB for helping bear,
And pencils marked BB for brave bear.
There was a knife for sharpening the pencils,
And India rubber for rubbing out anything which you'd spelt wrong,
And a ruler for ruling lines for the words to walk on.
And inches marked on the ruler in case you wanted to know how many inches anything was,
And blue pencils, and red pencils,
And green pencils for saying special things in blue and red and green.
And all these lovely things were in little pockets of their own,
In a special case which shut with a click when you clicked it.
And they were all for Pooh.
Oh, said Pooh.
Oh, Pooh!
Said everybody else, except Eor.
Thank you, ground Pooh.
But Eor was saying to himself,
This writing, business, pencils, and whatnot,
Overrated, if you ask me,
Silly stuff.
Nothing in it.
Later on, when it all said goodbye, and thank you to Christopher Robin,
Pooh and Piglet walked home thoughtfully together in the golden evening.
And for a long time, they were silent.
When you wake up in the morning, Pooh.
Said Piglet, I'd last.
What's the first thing you say to yourself?
What's for breakfast, said Pooh?
What do you say, Piglet?
I say, I wonder what's going to happen, exciting today.
Said Piglet.
Pooh nodded thoughtfully.
It's the same thing, he said.
And what did happen, asked Christopher Robin?
When?
Next morning.
I don't know.
Could you think and tell me and Pooh sometime?
If you wanted it very much.
Pooh does, said Christopher Robin.
He gave a deep sigh, picked his bear up by the leg and walked off to the door,
trailing Winnie the Pooh behind him.
At the door he turned and said,
coming to see me have my bath?
I might, I said.
Was Pooh's pencil case any better than mine?
It was just the same, I said.
He nodded and went out.
And in a moment I heard Winnie the Pooh bump, bump, bump,
going up the stairs, behind him.
The end.